---
layout: cv
title: CV
---

# Curriculum Vitæ

{% include contact.html %}

## Summary

As a full-stack engineer with a strong background in AI and machine learning together with a passion for creating scalable systems, I bring a unique set of skills. Here are some areas we can collaborate effectively to drive business value:

* AI Web Applications: Leverage my expertise in full-stack development and knowledge of AI to create AI-powered web applications. We can integrate data generated by AI models into Django or FastAPI backends to develop intuitive frontends.
* Edge Computing Solutions: Creating scalable systems to collect data generated by AI models running on edge devices and make it available through an API.
* API Design and Development: Creating robust, scalable and well-documented APIs using Django Rest Framework or FastAPI.
* Crawling and Scraping: Creating web crawlers and scrapers using Scrapy, Selenium, or other tools.

### Tools I am currently using

**Backend, AI**
* Web Development
  * Django Web Framework (and Django Rest Framework)
  * FastAPI, Pydantic
* AI
  * PydanticAI

**Frontend**
* ReactJS
* AlpineJS
* Astro

**Database**
* Postgresql and PGVector (with SQLAlchemy and Alembic, or Django ORM)
* Redis

**Broker**
* Kafka
* RabbitMQ (with Celery)

**Containerization Tools**
* Docker


### Tools I used before

**Frontend**
* VueJS
* ReactJS
* HTMX

**AI**
* Pytorch
* Scikit Learn

**Web Scraping**
* Scrapy
* Selenium

**Database**
* Qdrant
* Milvus
* TimescaleDB
* MongoDB
* Clickhouse

**Data and Other**
* Apache Spark
* GoLang
* Java

### Other

* Ansible
* Github Actions
* Cloud services, including AWS (EBS, S3, SES, EC2), Cloudflare, Digital Ocean, Hetzner and Google Cloud

## Work Experiences
* **Freelance Full-Stack & AI Engineer** [January 2024 - Present]
  * **Aracor AI, Remote — Full-Stack Developer** [April 2025 - August 2025]
    * _Aracor AI builds AI agents for the legal houses._
    * Resolved critical database bottlenecks in Aracor V1, implementing query optimisations and schema improvements that enabled a successful production launch.
    * Designed and implemented RESTful APIs (using FastAPI), handling user and file management, payment processing, and data extraction from various file formats.
    * Collected user analytics to optimize the user journey and enhance product performance.
  * Engaged in building AI-driven web applications and scalable APIs for various businesses, including projects in the Edge computing sector.
* [SmartCow](https://www.linkedin.com/company/smartcow/posts/) [June 2022 - December 2024] - At SmartCow, an Nvidia partner designing and manufacturing AI edge devices, I engineered scalable systems to collect and serve data from on-device AI models through robust APIs.
* [Umnai](https://umnai.com/) [September 2021 - June 2022] - Contributed to a small team developing a Python library for Explainable AI, enhancing developer capabilities in model interpretation.
  - Technologies used include Python with Pyspark, Pydantic, SQLAlchemy and Pandas.
* [Gaming Innovation Group](https://www.gig.com/) [February 2018 - September 2021] - Played a key role in developing [GiG Comply](https://comply.gig.com/), a platform built from the ground up to crawl and analyze over 1,000 webpages per hour.
  - Some of the technologies used include Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, Postgresql, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, Nginx, Docker, and Ansible.
  - Application of CNNs to detect logos in images.
* [RS2 Software](https://www.rs2.com/) [July 2015 - January 2018] - As a member of the Delivery Team, I developed and owned critical schema management tools, wrote and maintained plugins for Atlassian Jira (Java, Vanilla JS), and provided client training and troubleshooting support.

### Personal Projects

* [Short-Term Rental Apartment](https://seaviewapartmentxlendi.com/): Direct booking website for a short-term rental apartment in Gozo. Built using Astro.
* Financial Fortify: Sharing financial information from the view of an economist. This is no longer an active project.
* [Nutrition Sports Blog](https://rebmdsportsnutrition.com/): Blog website using a ready-made Jekyll Theme

## Education

**B.Sc in Artificial Intelligence (2015) - University of Malta**

The dissertation “Automated pathology detection in the brain” focused on the possibility of using Machine Learning algorithms to ease the process of detecting pathologies in CT Scans of the brain. Decision trees were used with the goal of explaining how a decision was derived.
